Toronto, May 2nd, '54

Dear Mother!

I wish you a very happy birthday and all the best. Hopefully you'll have good help for the coming year and stay healthy. A lot will change, of course, once Gert and Michi have finished their training.
If I'm not writing particularly neatly, it's because I'm sitting in High Park and writing on my lap. It's Sunday noon and I have off from 1 to 4 o'clock. I have to work every other Sunday, but in return I have every other Saturday and Sunday off.
High Park is Toronto's largest park among many, many others. It's in the middle of the city, but it's so big that you don't notice the city at all. There are large meadows, valleys, ravines, hills, woods, lakes for boating, sports fields, etc. There are tables and benches everywhere for having picnics. There are no gravel paths or flowerbeds, or ornamental trees and little signs with "forbidden"

[Text in the left margin, written vertically:]
I wanted to send you a picture of me, but I don't have one.

but instead it's all natural. You can play ball, play field games, sunbathe, or whatever else. When I think of the city garden in Konstanz or anywhere else; it's so much nicer here. People play a lot of ball here in general, whole families, I mean. Right next to my room there's also a park, and I'm always there with a blanket and my knitting after work. There's a tennis court there too; I've recently started playing tennis. I've been playing table tennis again for a long time; a friend of mine has a table to play on in the household where she works. At the youth club, two other girls and I have founded a sports group. So far there aren't very many of us, but that makes it all the nicer. We play tennis, badminton, basketball, dodgeball, and do gymnastics. It feels good when you just sit or walk all day. Soon we'll go swimming; the beach with its huge amusement park is just a 10-minute walk away. We have elected a leader and a treasurer for the youth group. Besides the members, guests are always welcome, but they have to participate in whatever we're doing, even if we just spend a whole evening listening to nice records or reading aloud. Any guests who complain can just leave. You can only become a member if you actively participate and commit to the group. We've already clashed with the pastor a few times, since he was always in favor of having as many people as possible come, which is not what we want at all. If it doesn't work out this time, then we'll start a private club. Otherwise, the pastor is a very versatile and generous man; perhaps he's too peace-loving. He has a doctorate in philosophy, and his sermons are just teeming with quotations. The literary evenings he has organized for us are really very valuable.
Last night we had sports again, including gymnastics, which feels good, but hurts. I go swimming at least twice a week at the YWCA indoor pool, always with Inge, the Michel from Holkheim.
Tonight I'll be working from 9 o'clock to 2 o'clock. It's the graduation party for the nurses. They'll be serving outside until late into the night. There will be 2,000 guests. All the dietitians and some of the student nurses will be serving and preparing the sandwiches and cakes and pastries. It's a lot of fun. The only thing is I have to be back at work at 7 tomorrow. On Saturday I'll probably spend the whole day at the exhibition, the International Trade Fair; over a hundred German companies are represented there again. Will Michi be here by September for the Exhibition? And how are you all doing? Is Dagmar with you? What will Klärle do when she leaves? How was your trip to Bernbach on Pentecost? Oh, wait, I just calculated that Pentecost isn't until the day after tomorrow. You don't notice anything about it here.
Michi, please write right away about the ship, otherwise all the spots will be taken.
Warmest regards,
Dodo.
