Holland America Line
R.M.S.

We've taken your advice to heart and won't be getting married at Christmas, but rather in January. It's always such a rush before Christmas anyway, and people don't have time to come.
My rocks arrived in good shape. I really didn't think a single piece would still be whole, but the man in Konstanz knew his business. It was just a cardboard box, you see, with no paper inside, just a simple thin string. By the time the box got to Vancouver, it was only barely holding itself together.
Uschi in Toronto has become a whole lot nicer. She can really make you enjoy having children. Little Sybille, Marianne and Eberhard Thews's daughter in Vancouver, is also a really sweet little tyke. I had stored my things with Marianne and Eberhard—and my car, too—and I also lived with them for the first two weeks after I arrived here, until I found a room. That is to say, finding a room isn't hard, there are 200-300 listed in the paper every day. I'm living with acquaintances now, but the parents of my... ?

Warmest regards, also to your mother and your Joh. It's your friend Jörk Blümel, brother of Uli Blümel from the former youth group. I have a small room and a bathroom here, and the bathroom is exactly as big as the room. Wouldn't that be something for you?
At Liesel's, everything looks exactly the same as it did in June, only with a bit more junk. She enjoys her work and is becoming more and more American. But you know, just like how everything from America is a bit exaggerated in Germany because it's new and unfamiliar, that's how it is with Liesel, and that will slowly sort itself out in Germany, too. I don't know if you understand that. By the way, my impressions of Germany match those of many other visitors to Germany, as I was surprised to discover on the ship. First impression: most Germans have it too good. Second: they don't skimp on money. Third: they are much more fashionable and better dressed, and don't let themselves go like we do. Fourth: many made a conceited impression, and fifth: on the whole they are unfriendlier or rather more impolite than Americans.
I've already ordered that housewife's guide, but for now I've just learned it by heart through Canada. It has a lot of good tips in it, thank you again. I'm already looking forward to when I can run a household. I'm sure I'll really enjoy it, budgeting money and all that. And then I won't be skimping when I buy a stove.
I'm singing in a motet choir now. It's a newly founded choir led by a Mennonite who studied music in Germany for three years. We only sing medieval music, especially Telemann, Schütz, Bach, Purcell, with 5-part harmony and orchestral accompaniment. We sing in German but mostly speak English, since there are many Mennonites in the group who have often been here for 2 or 3 generations and only sing in German at their church. It's a choir with the best from all the German church congregations in Vancouver.

So, I have to close now, because class starts in five minutes. Please don't make any plans from Thursday to Friday, because of my time off. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Sunday no school.
