Toronto, May 2, '55

Dear Mother,
Wishing you all the best for your birthday.
Thank you very much for your letter; I was so happy to get it. And then the sleeping bag for my birthday! It's just fantastic. I've already tried it on ten times, it's absolutely perfect. We had always wanted to sew some for ourselves, you know, buy the comforter and then sew the zipper in; but of course we wouldn't have had such a long zipper, and it wouldn't have been so wonderfully light either. With the carrying case, I can always have it in the front of the car. Thank you again so much. From Mech, I got a beautiful wallet and a ticket for the Metropolitan Opera New York for "Carmen". Inge and Hilde and their parents gave me a wonderful pearl necklace, a beautiful yellow fabric for a dress, and also an opera ticket for "Madame Butterfly". I plan to sew the dress next week. I already have the pattern. On my birthday, we went to the cinema to see "The Glass Slipper" with Leslie Caron; it's the fairy tale of Cinderella, modernized, really wonderful. Mech really liked it too. On the morning of my birthday, I wanted to get up an hour early and open my presents—I've done that 6 times now on my birthday. But Mechi said there was no way, and so we argued in bed in the morning about whether I was allowed to open them or not. Then I looked at the clock, and it was 10 minutes to 7, and I was supposed to be at work at 7. So I left the package be and rushed off like crazy.

Right now, Inge and Hilde's parents are here. The father is unfortunately only here for 2 weeks; he's on a business trip through the States. He has a few large department stores in Germany, so he's primarily interested in the big department stores here. I think he's already shot 20 rolls of film. He is really very nice, 57 years old, while the mother is only 29. They just got married last year but have known each other for 10 years and just waited until the girls were older. She immediately called me by my first name, which was nice.

On Saturday, we went to the falls in two cars; Mr. Kochendörfer's travel companion and his wife came along too. It was very nice, for once from a completely different point of view, that of the rich world. You see, the dollars were just flying, and of course, we were all invited. But for that, we got to see something and ate well on the 12th floor of one of more than a million hotels with a view of the falls. We rode all the elevators and railways that go under the falls; only the two boats that used to travel below the falls weren't there because they burned down to the ground two weeks before the season started. That was a much-talked-about event. The ships had been built down there over 50 years ago since they couldn't be brought in fully assembled. It's a huge loss of business for them not to be running. Imagine, Hilde is going back to Germany with her mother on June 30th. It was rather sudden, but her father wants her back since she has lost so much weight and is so nervous, so it's for the best. She has a more coveted life over there anyway. Later, she is supposed to go to the French part of Switzerland for a year to learn French. But she's leaving all her things here, as she might come back if she doesn't like it over there anymore. I'm curious to see how she settles back in over there, but as I said, she's going into very good circumstances, so she'll certainly be able to eat bananas and oranges there too. But I think it's nice and wise of the father to let the girls be on their own for a while and basically fend for themselves for 2 years. They didn't save much, but still. Inge is expecting her fiancé in July or August. We'll see what comes of that.

Last Sunday we were at Lake Erie on a peninsula that was basically just sand dunes; the sun was really blazing down.

I also received a long birthday letter from the Betzels. They're also having a hard time finding workers; for the household, though, they've had a deaf-mute girl for 2 years, which seems to be working out quite well. But otherwise, they're making progress; they've done a lot of new planting in recent years, bought a large dump trailer for the winter, and the barn is being rebuilt. That makes things fun.

Well, once again, very warm birthday wishes and all the best.
Doris
