Toronto, Dec. 15, 56

Dear Mech!
For Christmas, I wish you all the best and a nice Christmas at home after the two you spent in Canada. How long are your holidays, I mean the public holidays? I think you'll find yourself thinking about our Christmases the last two years, the first one on Spadina Rd. with Inge and Hilde and the second one at Inge and Klaus's, where Siegfried wrote such beautiful poems for Hilde. We were recently writing poems again at Inge and Klaus's cottage with Eckhart, Inge and also yours truly helping out; Eckhart is also great at it. Do you remember? "The Bird" by Siegfried? With the applesauce? And then New Year's at our place. This year we will celebrate at the cottage and Siegfried, Käthe, Gisela, Christian and Karin and Joe are all coming. For Christmas, only Wolfgang is coming with us, the one from the hospital; he's working as a car mechanic now and has really shaped up. Last Sunday, Käthe, Gisela, Siegfried and I drove out very early (7 o'clock) to go sledding. The three of them had bought a toboggan on Saturday.

I got a pair of skis from Inge and Klaus for Christmas, complete with steel edges. Manfred bought some too, Werner has them, André has some too. Inge has some from Klaus as well, so we can really get going and take the lift up from the cottage. The cottage is only 2 miles away.

Inge always invites me or asks if I'm coming along to the cottage. Klaus is actually quite happy when I go to the cottage with the "bear," because then he can of course read or sleep when I'm skiing with Inge, otherwise he has to go out now and then, and he gets so cold. When I'm at their house, sometimes in the evenings, the three of us play Skat—or he goes to the movies. Gisela, by the way, has the exact same situation with her Käthe; she gets dragged everywhere by Käthe.

We were in church on the evening of the 6th, and afterwards at Inge and Klaus's, with Wolfgang, in an adorable little cottage where we celebrated Christmas. We didn't get there until 11 o'clock because we were in a terrible snowstorm. There was a warm fire in the fireplace, we had salad and smoked tongue, and sang songs under the Christmas tree. We didn't even think about getting our coats until 4 o'clock in the morning. From Inge I got a beautiful rock crystal, from Klaus the skis. We had also baked shortbread and hazelnut macaroons.

Outside it was freezing cold—I think -17° Celsius. It was really great. We'll have New Year's weather tomorrow evening. On December 31st, 10 of us are going to the cottage to celebrate.

The 3 pictures arrived one after the other, I don't remember anymore.

Again, warm New Year's greetings for the new year.

I sent her a package for her birthday and Christmas on November 1st.
