Toronto, June 3, '54

Dear Folks!
Well, I wanted to send you a picture of myself that we took on our trip. Yes, take a good look, I'm wearing glasses. I wear them all the time, ever since I got my driver's license 2 years ago. I don't really know why I never told you before, but I just kept forgetting. It's better this way. I need them for driving anyway, and since I drive every day, it was just better to wear them all the time. I got used to them quickly, and they don't bother me. My friends here have only ever known me with glasses, and they claim I look half as nice without them.
But now I want to tell you about our trip. On Saturday morning, I drove off from here with my group, two boys and a girl. The girl, Inge, turned out to have been in the Hofheim children's home for 4 years, as we discovered on the drive, and we have a lot of mutual acquaintances. So of course, there was a lot to talk about. I spent the whole trip with her. She's engaged to someone from Hofheim, and her profession is textiles—she attended the engineering school in Frankfurt, in the textile department. She's here with just her sister, really two nice girls. But back to our trip. On the way, we sang and laughed a lot; one of the boys, who is the leader of the Christian Boy Scout group, told us about his work and all the things he does with his boys. For example, last year they rowed out to an uninhabited island in a lake on a raft (that they built themselves), with just swimming trunks and a knife. They had to stay there for 2 days, make a fire with stones, build a hut out of brushwood and logs, █████ gather berries and dig up roots or wild potatoes. The boys naturally have fun with that, and they learn a lot. – Along the way, we overtook one of our other cars, which had left 1 1/2 hours before us but had broken down. So we stopped; I had two large cans of apple juice and sandwiches and cake. After a 4-hour drive (average speed 80 km/hour) we arrived.

We had rented a whole house for three days, on a lake that not many people go to. A woman cooked for us, so all we had to do was sit down at the table. There were 8 girls and 14 boys. Of course, we stormed the boats right away. There were three rowboats and a motorboat at our disposal. In the middle of the lake was a small island, where we made a campfire in the evening and sang and told ghost stories. Of course, we weren't always all together; smaller groups formed. Sometimes we drove the car to another lake, or through the forest. The area there is wonderful, still truly wild. Then in the evening, we danced until late at night. We had guitars, an accordion, a piano, records, a radio, and a television set. Plenty of options. On Sunday morning, Inge and I got up at 5 o'clock and rowed across the lake, which was glorious and very brisk. After breakfast, the three of us went on an expedition through the primeval forest, during which we got thoroughly scratched up and bitten by mosquitoes.

We took some beautiful pictures, though I had color film in my camera, so I couldn't just snap away endlessly, as it was often quite dark. You get to know each other much better on a trip like this, and there's a great sense of camaraderie. On Monday at noon we set off again, and were back in old Toronto by evening. The boys also went swimming; one of them sank in a boat because he was too lazy to bail out the water. You see, not all the boats were completely watertight. That was a sight to behold. We'll be going on trips like this more often now, and one of you will be able to join one of the autumn trips. This group we recently founded must be something like the Wandervogel was back in the old days. What happened was that there were too many of us, over a hundred on some evenings. And then there were always those who just caused trouble or complained. So, twelve of us have now joined together and for the time being, we will be the only members, whereas before, anyone could become a member. Last Saturday we elected the president, vice president, secre-
