Hofheim, November 22nd

Dear Mech!

Many thanks for your letter. When are you finally going to send me the pictures from Säntis? I've been waiting for them for half a year now. Can you write me your Christmas wishes? Preferably before the first Sunday of Advent, because I'll be doing a big shopping trip in Frankfurt then. What are you giving the various relatives? Are Liesel and Mr. Geser gone already? Where are th-

***

ey actually going? Is my operations manager here yet? How is Ulla? And how long is she staying? Does she have a job yet?
Was it nice at the seminar on November 11th? Do you have an address from England yet?
Today is a holiday. I played records all morning. That would have been something you'd enjoy. I'm currently knitting a pullover for myself, a white one. I'm very happy with my coat. Yesterday, for the first time, I was at an English discuss-

***

ion group at the Amerikahaus. It was nice. But I noticed that I've forgotten many words. Tomorrow evening I'm going to a singing group, also for the first time.

Warm regards!
Dorle

r
Eggs? (or Eier?)
already
uni[versity] =
d.?
have
-ffen (word ending)
as (or what/that)
time
I,
reads / is
yesterday
in
-ussions. (word ending)

***

Dear Mother!
How are you? I just want to quickly write to you about the apple prices at the wholesale market in Frankfurt. We sold Cox apples for 48 and 50 Pfennig per pound to small retailers, and there are still some wormy ones among them. The large ones, however, are very nice. Goldparmäne apples are selling slowly, 25 Pfennig, but some are of poorer quality than Grade A. There are also some for 32 Pfennig. Boskoop apples only cost 20 to 25 Pfennig, but they are not particularly nice-looking. We are not selling any Boskoops yet. In the shops in Frankfurt, Cox apples are sold for 70 Pfennig.

***

Dear Mother, I have your letter here. And as for your holiday, it is very definite, because Babettche, our domestic help, is leaving on December 1st. Then there will probably be no one here for the house again. We'll see if it can still be arranged somehow.
Everyone here advises me against putting money in the savings bank, as unforeseen problems are very likely.

Now, on December 3rd, I'm going for a big shopping trip in Frankfurt. I need underwear, pajamas. Then I want to buy myself a dress for Sundays. I think that will be cheaper than having one made. Then I also need 1 or 2 pairs of work trousers, a smock apron, and a good fabric jacket. I'm very happy with the coat. I'm currently knitting myself a pullover, and I am indeed set on knitting

***

one. But I can get all these things much cheaper in Frankfurt than there with you all.
You know that I always enjoy the library. The beige wool dress and your handwoven belt are too short for me, and also a little too tight. Do you think it would fit Christel? And a white polo blouse, which is still almost new.

What should I give Grandma?

Warm regards,
Dorli.

***

Apple prices are rising!
And it's generally expected that apples will become expensive in spring. There are also no foreign apples on the market. There's a lot of low-quality produce lying around. Produce from Lake Constance stands out very favorably here at the market and is eagerly bought.
Here in the newspaper, they are looking for a permanent girl/maid for household and agricultural work in France. I've now written to inquire about further details/conditions. Also, I recently got an address through the rad-

***

io and wrote it down. The position in Baden-Baden is advertising in a Canadian newspaper. Several workers are apparently in high demand there. Do you think I should apply there? Or should I rather leave things as they are with you? I would prefer to go to Switzerland first. Have you found a suitable operations manager yet? How is UI?
Are you actually planning to buy the leased land from Groß-Ursel?
Warm regards. Darli
Continued on the next page!

[Crossed-out unclear text in blue ink]

[Text in blue ink: Hafnerin (female potter/stove-fitter) / [Unclear text] Dante Hafner]