Monti, 17.12.55

Dear Aunt!
For Christmas, I wish you all the very best and a very merry, cozy holiday season. Do you have snow? Here it snows a little almost every day and it's always cold, sometimes -15° Celsius. It will be difficult for you all on Advent. Well, maybe it will work out on Christmas. We are already working in the evenings after church, which is at 6 o'clock; on the 24th in the evening after church at 10 or 12. At Inge and Klaus's place, the grilling is very good. On Christmas Eve, Geige and Klaus, we will bake the poor Buthaben and make potato salad. We're not doing anything as a group, since we have our group night on Sunday evening anyway.
Now for the Christmas performance. Guess what we're doing, a Swabian nativity play. On Sunday, perhaps everything went as if it were Swabian. The hall was jam-packed, like last time we had to set up chairs. In the first row sat the dignitaries, among them Count von Zech. Only with the trembling did I feel terrible, but it didn't seem to bother them, because the costume wasn't quite right. I had the picture above and a green blanket around my middle and I couldn't really picture it, but they made it imaginable. Everyone said it looked very good; it was also recited very well. The pastor greeted you all first; then Christmas carols at Christmas, sung by angels in front of the nativity scene. They were wearing robes of innocence and a beautiful wreath in their hair and a star-topped staff in their hand. Right at the end, Frede and I sang "Glory to God in the Highest." After every scene, we had to change within seconds, so that we were dressed differently each time. Then came the Annunciation; Mother and Sybille as Gabriel. I had a rehearsal on Friday and another on Saturday morning; for the nativity scene, we had lanterns and a star on our robes and a halo around our heads. With the shepherds, their flock on the stage, we sang a song with them. The shepherds were a gardener; Mickel, old and huge, with a beard, hat, jacket-cape, and shaft boots as Stoffel. From the Middle Ages, a cap, wrapped feet. And Cyriak, a boy, no cap, wrapped stockings, and a fur vest. There was a lot of laughter at Cyriak and he did justice to the other two—the way Verrückel came in, he literally stormed the stable, gave them such a strong shove that they certainly wobbled.
The angel, the same one as Gabriel, was dressed, that looked good, before the curtain rose, I was humming "From Heaven Above to Earth I Come," and hummed it while the angel appeared, as well as during the kings' scene.
The soirée at Aunt Jote's was held in his factory. Joe, he might have seen blood for once, it was certainly covered and he might have made a racket when he threw the sword from the door, and thus announced that the dog wants peace if he doesn't want to live. The attendant was Eckhard von Schwern. Jockel's face was powdered completely white and his eyes were darkly outlined. That was Werner Schmerder. In private, he looks a bit like a Jockel and also has a very deep voice. The devil was already wearing such tight pants, black trousers and a black cap with little horns. His face was made up with a black beard and bangs, the jet, he had a pitchfork and you heard it as soon as he appeared. The last scene was also good, after Werner and I had marked on the stage where the critics should stand, who had always stood on the other side. Ellen as Kunigunde did her part very well, and then we all sat together at the nativity scene singing "Still, still, still." (Nobody knew the other song and we didn't have time to practice it). Afterwards, the important people came to us and congratulated us, saying it was the best thing that had been offered since the parish was founded, the main credit for that goes to the boys.
Everyone had a different idea of how a role should be played. So I first let them play their roles without saying anything, and where it was good, even though it was different from how I remembered it, I left it that way, believing it's better if they play it naturally than if you drill something else into them. The Herod scene, for example, is a bit different from when we played it, Herod now relies more on his authority than on pronounced theatrics, and Herodias doesn't scheme so much, in every one of his steps she looks out for herself, whether it will harm her, what can be changed about it, and excellent. Heinz is also very good as Balthasar and Gerhart as the Moor, still, still very good, and Josef is also, well, he's a Berlin-style Josef, but great. Herod is also a soldier, it's as if you had already come a long way, you already have to patch your clothes at the beginning, afterwards as the one declared incompetent by his wife he plays well, that is, they are almost beyond patching. Likewise, Stoffel is good. I believe it's on the 3rd of Advent in the evening, and invitations have already been sent out.
Now here's who's come: Kunocha, the attendant Joe is here, Gulda in person, Vera without further ado, a new Sybille, the angel Gabriel, Ellen, Erich the caroler, Grimm et mal mech, Josef mal Kraus, Siegfried, Horst Möchle, Horst Weune are the shepherds. Heinz, Reinhold mal Gerhard the kings. Since Manfred came back late from Mülich, we gave him the part of God the Father, but he's still complaining. He wasn't at any of the rehearsals. When I give him a really blunt piece of my mind, he's properly intimidated for a moment, and in the end, he just gives me a faint grin. Manfred is fundamentally a peaceful person, but he makes it quite difficult for you, let that be for us children. He was furious with me because I didn't pick him up with the car. Later he saw that the play was already getting on my nerves, a drama had been played out, then it was suddenly... It's a Hamburg thing that Josef sets God the Father on fire, that's not supposed to be right. I already didn't take any tearful pictures during the day behind a dark... then they place more value on participation.
Or I see her at all once a week, that is, I see her sleeping every morning.
Hilde Kocherdörfer has brought me back to Germany. But we weren't the type for each other, because she is so sensitive and precise, besides she seemed to have started working for the person who was last living with her, and that with seven. Inge and Klaus are participating nicely in the group life, that's for tomorrow as an electrical engineer, until then he worked as a technical draftsman. Now Klaus brings a significant... and tonight we discussed the costumes with Sigmund, whether they are finished. I think they will be quite beautiful. We have to buy about 50 yards of fabric, 25 cents, that's $7.50 and then... so about $10. That can be worn. We rehearse continuously, once a week, at first it looked like it would fall through, but since Sigmund Hay... on our... we wanted to cut the roles. Her husband Fred, on Saturday he was... he is now with our men, your Günther the devil, Joe's brother.
You know, last year the Anthroposophists put on a nativity play that was absolutely terrible. It was also good publicity for our group, and right after the play, 3 people came and asked if they could join. Tomorrow the Sunday school is also putting on a nativity play, so we have to go and watch it.
Today is the last day to send cards and letters, for Toronto too, I still have to write 45 cards.
Dear Mutti, I hope you can use the coffee maker. I thought, when you go to the market in the morning, you can turn everything on, and by the time you've washed up in bed, or made tea, the coffee will be ready.
(Jördeln has to do this). Then, put in the necessary number of coffee beans, not less than 4 cups, fill the coffee container with the coffee beans, so it surrounds the perforated filter. Pour the water into one of the filters at the bottom, if you want, but it's not necessary, pour a cup of cold water over the coffee, put the lid on and place the machine... and it brews like... I want to briefly write you the number and the height and depending on how much you want... will be again. After that, put the lid on and place it. That's all. The coffee... stir the coffee after so many seconds and it stops by itself when the coffee is ready. Then enough heat remains so it doesn't get cold but not on the oil, so don't worry that you're brewing coffee. If you want to keep the coffee warm for the next day or so, you have to put it in and the coffee container in, just without coffee. If you feel that the coffee is just water outside, because of the hearts, if you don't handle it, bad, leave the lid off.
I thought of the sabers and all the powder myself, it's so simple, if you ever write it. For Grosel there's the clothes... if one doesn't have a closet, then the clothes brushes etc. For Christel, the donkey cleans it.

Now, many heartfelt Christmas greetings and a Happy New Year to you all from Drk.
