Toronto, April 12, 57

Dear Mother,

I wish you all a happy Easter. I'm sure everything is already Easter-like where you are, even outside, with flowers. Here it is still all winter, with snow even in the last few days. But if you stare at the brown lawns in front of the houses for a long time, you can imagine that you can already see something fresh and green coming through. But I'm quite used to that by now; I mean, spring just doesn't start until May. Although, Gudrun writes to me from Vancouver that everything is already in bloom there. But then again, some flowers bloom there all winter long. For Easter, we are going to Deer Lake with 14 boys and girls, including 2 Hungarian students. There are countless Hungarian refugees here, and they are being very well taken care of. These two students came here from Hungary with their entire college; they are related to Käthe.
Gisela and I are currently practicing songs and games with the children from our church's language school for a parents' evening on Mother's Day. It's fun, the children can sing well. The German language school has 80-100 children who have school every Saturday from 10-12 in the church basement. They learn quite a bit; where else would the children learn to write? Outside of class, however, they all speak English.

gasoline in Ontario has gone up 2¢, it now costs 42¢ per gallon (4.5 liters), while in the States it's only 26¢ on average.

My work continues to be fun; as a "teller," you have a lot of contact with the customers, you know almost all of them personally. I don't know what it's like in Germany, but they call most of the customers by their first names and they do the same with us. We get presents from them for Christmas and Easter, and often chocolate in between. This Easter, I actually had to work for 2 hours on Saturday, since the banks were open, but then I was given the time off again. Our accountant is an old Boy Scout himself and is very supportive of trips. I've already gotten my second raise, which is nice.

Yes, for my birthday Gisela gave me a great book, "Heaven Full of Violins," about the lives of the great symphonists. On Saturday, our "Jolanthe" will be performed at the church, with the entire German press, the consul, and a few other people in attendance. Our stage, which we built ourselves, will be inaugurated. It's really great, with PA lighting and a main curtain and side curtains, all self-made and sewn, and a great dressing room and mirror. I have to be the prompter again, which is quite exhausting for 2 1/2 hours.

Once again, all the best for your birthday
and warm greetings from Jork.
