Vancouver, Aug. 20, '56

Dear Mother!
Today is Father's birthday, are you celebrating it?
He would be 59 now. But you know his age better!
I just had to think of him today.
How are you all? I'm sure you're all in the
midst of your busiest work and not getting to
bed until late. Sometimes I get a little homesick
when I'm lazing about at 5 o'clock or a
quarter past. I would certainly love to help.
Vancouver is so beautiful that you sometimes
forget all about the big wide world.
You can't say you immediately have all the
lights and the hustle and bustle; the mountains with
their countless lights and the wide
streets. I have the big
ferries and the many small tug-
boats, a 1/2 mile behind Stanley Park, and
without the city with its high-rises and
no more streets. Stanley Park is a strip of
forest, and in the morning the mountain, which is
bare, turns red. I live on the mountain, which with
the forest with its cabins and
I are right in the middle of it all.
I have met a girl with whom
I go on trips.
been together at her place a couple of times.
is very nice, 5 girls with a
The girls could use it more. But I'm already going back
to Toronto. I just have my visa running
and will then travel through the States, very
likely via California.
Inge and Klaus are working hard on their cottage;
they are now buying two adjacent building
lots and want to build another cottage in 2 years,
to rent out or for guests. On
one lot there will be a tennis court and
lawn and woods. Klaus has his papers now
for his engineering degree and is earning quite well.
We will go skiing a lot in the winter,
since it's only 1 mile from there to Collingwood.
A group Christmas at the cottage is already
being planned.
On Saturday I was on Fulen Island, a district
of Vancouver that consists only of farms, especially
blueberries (bushes, like currant bushes).
You can pick your own fruit and vegetables
there and then get them very cheap. A
pound of blueberries 75¢, a pound of red Transparent
apples 5¢, beans 5¢, plums 5¢. So I'm living
almost entirely on fruit and vegetables.
It's an exceptionally good year here,
whereas in Ontario everything froze. Since I've
been here, it has only rained once.
How is the situation with workers?
anything from Canada then? Any stories?
Do you have any plans for the future?
that you don't write to anyone from the group, but I
can't help you there. Warm greetings from Dorle
