I'll give it to her here. But if you can't get a nice one for 50 DM, feel free to spend more, and it can be an Easter gift or a belated wedding anniversary present!
The winter here is actually colder than the last few years, with quite a lot of snow and sun every day. We very, very rarely have gray winter days here; either it's snowing or the sun is shining, but without everything immediately melting—it's still frozen solid. We might get fog here 3 times a year. In Calgary, they have 2.70 meters of snow. So I can be very glad next year that Christel's skirt was too tight for her. I wouldn't have thought it; it was 5 sizes bigger than mine. But apparently, the different diet and air here make you thinner. Mechi has lost weight, too. In return, though, you get bad teeth. The dentists here say that's the case for almost all new Canadians. Mechi has that and a high fever, but she is waiting with perseverance and a toothache for the health insurance in Germany. As you know, no health insurance here pays for the dentist, not even the most expensive private plan, presumably because they would otherwise go bankrupt. The same goes for medications, if you're not in the hospital. Now that it's Health Week, there's a lot of emphasis again on making sure everyone knows about vitamins and calories. I have to say, they pay much more attention to that here, and fresh apples and oranges are eaten a lot, as well as a lot more fresh vegetables than in Germany, which can be bought at cheap prices. People eat a lot more salad, especially coleslaw and lettuce, then raw carrots (just whole like that) and raw celery, raw spinach (very good), and radishes, cucumber slices (plain), and bell peppers. Salad here is generally eaten with your hands, and something fresh is served with every meal. Consequently, relatively few bananas are bought, even though they are so cheap, but they don't have many vitamins and are so fattening. This might all seem a bit exaggerated to you, this whole vitamin craze, but in the city, it's really important. For instance, all flours and milk and other foods are artificially enriched with vitamins, so that the local cotton-like white bread actually has the same vitamins as whole wheat bread. By the way, speaking of artificial things, there's a saccharine here now (sweetener) that, with the best will in the world, you can't distinguish from sugar. We use it in the hospital for our diabetics and for weight-loss diets. It's also very cheap, but then again, sugar costs nothing here, 10¢ a pound. The Betzels wrote to me again, too. Since I left, they've planted 8-12 morgens of new saplings, mostly on leased land. Mr. Betzel does everything on Type 9 or now Type 4 with an iron pipe framework. A 20-year lease is enough for that, because by then the soil is exhausted and the planting is spent. That's the modern way, almost like the farmers do it here. But he's having success with it.
Warm regards, Dorle.
