Toronto, 19.11.55

Dear Mutti and siblings!
How are you all? Now in the evenings I have more time again, hopefully, now that it's always because of school. I'm in evening school again this week for typing and shorthand. There's youth group night and then secretarial duties, which is also work.
In the summer, I had a guilty conscience when you wrote about your St. Cecilia celebrations and I went swimming at 3 o'clock after work. Please excuse me, but I'm writing to each sister with the fountain pen and nib that I believe is from the 5th grade, which I lovingly found in my pen case. The pen holder is a very old Bartel case with a boy on the front where you get it. And I'm definitely getting all of that, to write on a ball like that again! I must, except for the only one, the names of the one who was given a box of pears, pot holders, cake pans and do you know what I did today? Mrs. Bartl was there too, even though she doesn't speak English well. The shorthand isn't difficult for me, it just goes much too slowly in school.
On Monday we have another performance in the gymnasium for "National Health Week". We've practiced new routines, which is a hot dance with ties and hoops. It's really great fun. I've already said that we learn more Hebrew here than anything else. It's all very strenuous, though. Dream or best conductors are Victor de Corvin for the week. He plays almost every evening and in the Contarte (?) one hears Beethoven and Tim (?) welan (?) the coffee is very good and it's easy that they don't hold a grudge (?) and stay firmly at home there and can't finish. Just look at it (the one who was sent back (?) wanted it) it cost $13, which is 52 DM. But if you bring it for a third party (?) or something else, but not too big of a thing, that can cost, maybe you could do it so that you could get money from me (?) no health insurance, and not the most expensive private insurance, because that is, presumably because it would otherwise go bankrupt. The same with medications, if you're not in the hospital. Now that it's Health Week, a lot of attention is being paid again to making sure everyone knows about vitamins and calories. I have to say, much more attention is paid to that here, and fresh apples and oranges are eaten a lot, and also a lot more fresh vegetables than in Germany, which can be bought at cheap prices. A lot more salad is eaten, especially coleslaw and lettuce, then raw carrots (just whole like that) and raw celery, raw spinach (very good) and radishes, cucumber slices (plain) and bell peppers. Salad here is mostly eaten with your hands anyway, something fresh with every meal. So comparatively few bananas are bought, although they are so cheap, but they don't have many vitamins in them and are so fattening. That might seem to you like I'm giving it to her here. But if you can't get a nice one for 50 DM, feel free to take more, then it will also be an Easter gift or a belated wedding anniversary present!
The winter here is actually colder than in recent years, quite a lot of snow and sun every day. Gray winter days are very, very rare here, either it's snowing or the sun is shining, without the water immediately running; everything is still frozen rock-solid. We have fog here maybe 3 times a year. In Calgary, they have 2.70 meters of snow. So I can be very happy next year that Christel's skirt was too tight for her, I wouldn't have thought it, it was 5 sizes bigger than mine. But apparently it's the different diet and air here that makes you thinner. Mechi has also lost weight. But you get bad teeth in return. The dentists here say that's the case with almost all New Canadians. Mechi has that and a high fever too, but she is waiting with perseverance and a toothache for the health insurance in Germany. As you know, here you pay for these nasty habits that rob you of all your vitamins, but in the city it's really important, so all the flours and milk and other foods are also artificially enriched with vitamins, so that the local cotton-white bread actually has the same vitamins as whole grain bread. By the way, speaking of artificial, there is a saccharine (sweetener) here now that, with the best will in the world, is indistinguishable from sugar. We use it in the hospital for our diabetics and for weight-loss diets. It is also very cheap, but sugar costs nothing here either, 10¢ a pound. The Betzels have written to me again; since I left, they have planted 12 acres of young plants, mostly on leased land. Mr. Betzel does everything on Type 9 or now Type 4 with an iron pipe frame. A 20-year lease is enough for that, then the soil is exhausted and the planting is declining. That's modern, almost like the farmers do it here. But he's having success with it.
Warmest greetings, Dorle.
