Beamsville, Sept. 22nd

Dear Mother,
Many thanks for your last letter. Hopefully you are over the worst of it now and aren't working so late in the evenings anymore. Is it still so hard to find someone? Next summer you should definitely hire one more worker, because it's no good if you work yourself to exhaustion, especially since you also have to do the business side of things. How is the harvest? And the prices? Are prices generally rising? Is Giesel home yet? She wrote to me from H. Huril's (?). I do think, though, that she'll find it difficult to be an apprentice for another 3 years. After all, she's already 23 years old, and she's never liked being told what to do.

Besides that, there's the low pay. I was already thinking about whether she might want to come here, but I don't think she would like it, the whole way of life and the attitude, "time is money." You really have to be able to adapt, at least in part, otherwise you can't keep up.
Is Ursel at the clinic yet? Hopefully the treatment will be a success. Is Fritz still there? It was lovely of her to come to Stetten. What is Willi Christ up to? I wish he were in Canada. He'd have his own farm in a few years; he would get ahead quickly here. I know a young agricultural sciences graduate who came in May, and now he's buying a farm and having his fiancée join him. The government gives loans for the purchase of farms, machinery, etc. In case of crop failure, compensation is paid, and for example, the farmers in Saskatchewan were reimbursed for every head of cattle that had to be shot because of foot-and-mouth disease, which was over 2000 animals. Of course, it's the same here, more and more people are moving to the city, and many farms are for sale.
The harvest work is finished except for the grape harvest. There aren't any apples here. So for the last week, I've been working at the cannery, where we're canning fruit and vegetables. I have another 6 weeks of work there, then I'll probably go back to domestic work. It's already noticeably cold.
Two weeks ago I bought a used car, a Ford. It has a brand-new black paint job, and the engine is still very good. A German car mechanic was with me. Vegetables would be nothing you'd look for here, but there are car lots about every 100 yards; we were at least at 12 lots in St. Catherines. Now I can drive to the German club every Saturday evening, or to the German cinema sometimes, and on Sundays to the Falls, to the lake, or to the canal. It's interesting there when the ocean liners are guided through the locks of the Welland Canal, which bypasses Niagara Falls and connects Lake Ontario with Lake Erie. It's also wonderful at Lake Erie; there are a lot of storms there, while Lake Ontario has a very strong coastal current, so that every year a piece of land gets washed away. Houses that were a good distance from the shore a few years ago will have to be torn down soon.

Did you receive the money? I'm supposed to let the company in New Jersey know once I hear from you.
Is Fricker Rupp actually...? I could write, that's how it is.
You can all start thinking now about what you want for Christmas. I know that if you want something, I'll have to send it at the beginning of November, because we wish for a lot from you, that Christel or Bärbel a little book with his Fülleli recipes.
I'm reading a lot of nice books. If one of you has a lot of time on a rainy day, it would be a great joy if you would send a few of your (animals, horses, etc.) as printed matter.
Are you on vacation sometime? Are you going to the mountains?
Warm greetings to all of you.

[Text written vertically along the left margin]
Otherwise, I don't have any other news. When are you going to write again, and please send me the German newspaper. Misunderstanding with Willi Christ? It's slowly getting to be time for you to write a wish list. I want to write to Aunt soon and then... haven't figured out how it works yet. I'd be quite glad if there was nothing left for Berlin. Maybe something is broken. If one of you is a clever photographer(?)
