Trois-Rivières, Quebec, July 5, 1955

Dear Aunt L.,
Just a quick letter before it gets dark. Our second day of vacation is already over—that is, I've been on vacation since Friday, but on Friday Inge's mother and Sister M. left, and I wanted them to have plenty of time with their fiancés. So we set off from Toronto on Monday. We went swimming at midday and in the evening tried out the air mattresses, which you can get very cheaply at the special sales. Nothing else special happened, except that when we encountered a ship on the water—we went out again in the evening—we saw so much at the Quebec border, which was new territory for us, all the way to the beginning of Lake Ontario, the Thousand Islands, and a large, beautiful bridge to the States, and the St. Lawrence River, which is very busy with steamers there and makes the Rhine from Bingen to Mainz seem small, of course. In the evening, we drove to the shore onto a mown meadow and first went for another swim in the river in front of us. Then we got hungry. We still had potato salad and anchovies, then we played a game of Twenty-One before a thunderstorm, which was rolling in very spookily. It was a magnificent spectacle of colors and wind on the water, the boat was pulled by its anchor a few times, and then it was so warm at night that we had the doors and windows of the car open and just lay in our sleeping bags in our pajamas.
You can probably imagine that by 5 o'clock in the morning we felt the need to stretch our legs, even though we had both slept well. So I slipped out of the sleeping bag; Inge was still lying in the back.
We drove on until just before Montreal. There we went for a swim, did our morning routine, and finished the rest of the apple salad. Then it was on to Montreal. You could tell the difference right from the border. All the traffic signs were different from over there, the traffic rules weren't as strict, and the people speak French and English—French as a dialect, English as the language taught in school; the people aren't as polite as in Ontario, they're more laid-back. Montreal itself is beautiful, but completely different from Toronto; it has a much more European feel. There are churches on every corner, very nice ones with beautiful altars, and above all, St. Joseph's Oratory is magnificently situated, in the middle of the city on the mountain. I will send you pictures. Has she already written that she took a drawing course?
Best regards, Your
Loving mother and siblings.
Second day of vacation, it is, we sleep a lot, refresh ourselves, swim and laze around, in the morning and evening. Today our skin has gotten a bit more color.
in the car, walking and driving
Joseph's Oratory in Montreal, it is wonderful, similar to Lourdes in France, 83,749 cripples are healed monthly.
sent cards.
