Toronto, 29.1.57

Dear Mother,

Your Christmas package arrived today, what a wonderful surprise, thank you so, so much. The wallet is really great, I especially like the full-length pocket with the ridges. And the yellow pin is also so great and beautiful—I really needed one and was always meaning to buy one.

I was still using my gray plastic bag; I think I bought it before the currency reform at the Bittelplatz at the fair. That was quite a rarity back then. How is the weather with you? Here it is a real winter with lots, and lots of snow, so much that it's a disaster getting around; you can't get anywhere quickly, not even with the car. Our wagoner and accountant drive their car to the train station in the suburbs every morning and come to the city by train.

It has to be for the belly! What the belly likes. I've been through all the jobs now. There they process a lot of fruit during the summer, make preserves, although a lot of it is at the bread-slicing machines—I'm now the girl for the plates and bread-slicing machines, the one who stands at the counter. That is very interesting, except for that, especially because of the references, the bookkeeping references once, because you have to be very precise there. shot, and it was also a sound film. There were about 300 people there, and it was quite good, but there really weren't supposed to be so many, and "Council of the Gods" wasn't supposed to be either. He, in any case, showed the film himself. He played the part, though, created a mood that was just as bad as the commissioner's, because Mrs. Kaeldeway and Ellen Lattri, for whom the role was actually intended, were supposed to be alone, but Miss von Betheim told Ellen, she was also supposed to not get in the way on site. It will now be performed in January in Hamilton and St. Catharines. is still so stupid, but he now seems to be good, now he always goes to a small harbor at night (in S.) we have both been there

meaning in Kreich told, he sometimes gets sick, but not really, and yet he also says, "to me, as the beard gets longer and longer, and so it goes, the beard gets longer and longer there at the Kapark. Today, however, a "comrade" was big. F. Herz and distinguished but if you ever want to see a good film on "The Informer" with Paul Reymer it's really great. But he also says, it's all of them and he wanted so especially now the German film a little bit new films, so dear has someone to now apply, the brand seems to be the one in "As Long as You're There," but on the whole

there at the Kapark. Today, however, a "comrade" was big. F. Herz and distinguished but if you ever want to see a good film on "The Informer" with Paul Reymer and Deborah Kerr it's really great. But he also says, it's all of them and he wanted so especially now the German film a little bit new films, so dear has someone to now apply, the brand seems to be the one in "As Long as You're There," but on the whole seen, well thought out.
