Toronto, Nov. 11th

Dear Mom!
Thank you so much for your letter, I was very happy
to receive it. It's really okay if you can't write
that much; maybe Frenoch Bärbel can give an update now and then.
Yes, if only the political situation weren't so tense. It really looks
bad. The general opinion here is that it's going to start soon,
though not with atoms. That would be
terrible for you all in Europe, but for us
here, too—just sitting here while things are blowing up over there isn't
nice either. But maybe it will drag on
for a while longer. Here in Toronto, they are practicing the partial
evacuation of the entire city; traffic will then be
directed by helicopters. On the streets, there are
signs at the side of the road saying that
this street will be closed to the civilian population
in the event of an enemy attack.
Hopefully, Ursel will have some success; I really wish that
for her. You write that she will then only be doing light
work. Would that be forever? Or just for the first while?
Is it a psychiatric hospital? That they read the mail?
What does that have to do with the treatment? Do you
think it's somehow hereditary, or just from
overwork? Wasn't there an Else Eberling who also
had trouble with her nerves? Or is she not
a blood relative of ours? I don't understand
how something like this can just happen, especially since Ursel
never had anything like this before. Maybe she should have
been forced to get help in the early stages? But you would
know better, since I wasn't there to see it.

[Text written vertically along the left margin]
ellen can't send it until the 24th, then it will be there by the 10th at the little church. It's funny that Christel and I, Bärbel and the others
hardly sing anymore.
Although the girls who are younger
here don't know too many
songs either. But we've already
taught them a lot. Well, I'll be sure
to teach Liesel how to sing when she
goes on a trip with me. I can actually
manage to sing for 4 hours straight
in the car. Especially when Gisela is there. Yes, the
Scouts are quite widespread
here, but more so the boys.
Otherwise, for the boys and girls,
there are mainly clubs through the schools
or the churches. But still,
among the Germans, it's more about
the community of Germans—for
single people as a substitute for family,
for the little ones so they can learn
German (or not forget it).
Inge and Klaus have been back for two weeks.
They had a good time and were also
very spoiled. But they are quite happy to be back here.
What they really noticed was the undisciplined driving in traffic.
I've heard that from other people, too.
Klaus and Inge had an Opel from Inge's father.
Then the men in shorts, the high prices,
the unfriendly service in the shops—well, I'm
curious to see for myself. Inge brought back a
knitting machine, so we're doing our
own knitting now. Last week at the cottage,
we tiled and painted the bathroom.
In October, I'm going to Insel in
New York over a long weekend.
If I take 3 others with me, it only costs
$3 each for the fare. It's 500
miles (800 km). I actually loaded
a film from Insel; I took a few photos with
it. I don't know if Liesel has sent
any yet. She really likes New
York, but I don't know if I'd want to
be there.
Warm regards,
Inge
