Toronto, January 13, 1955.

Dear Mother!
Your letter arrived yesterday! Now I’m going
to be completely honest for once. – The letter
unfortunately came too late. I waited two weeks
for it, and the day before yesterday I just
went ahead and read Mechi’s letter without
permission, you can think what you will. After all, I wanted
to know whether the package had arrived
or not. I half-figured that we
wouldn’t know each other very well anymore, but that you would think
of me that way, I was horrified by that.
That was the first time I regretted that
Mechi came over, because she managed to do this
with her quick judgment.
I won’t let her feel it, because she probably
did it unconsciously with her obsession for honesty.
Don’t worry about it. But for the time being, I don’t
want any more letters from you; I can do without letters like that,
the kind that take two weeks. Why should I be
ashamed that Mechi is my sister?
What nonsense. And the dumbest thing you could have written was that she should be eternally
grateful to me for bringing her over.
Therein, I believe, lies the whole
problem. Sometimes she wanted to say something,
then she thinks, I can’t do that, because
I have to be grateful, and instead
she follows you around, offended,
for an hour. So much more pleasant!
Do you think it’s strange that I
can’t really picture you all anymore,
by which, incidentally, I didn’t mean you,
since you don’t know me anymore either?
You know, Inge and Hilde get along so
well with their parents; they get a long
letter every week. I don’t demand that
at all, because I know you have
little time, but at Christmas
you had time, and you didn’t want to, because
I was making it so hard for Mechi, even though
she was making it just as hard for me, but
you wouldn’t want to believe that of dear,
feisty Mechi. Inge asked me
every day if I had mail, and
in the end I was so ashamed
that I lied to her! But now that’s
over. I’ve reached the point where I can tell
anyone that I have no desire
to go home, not even for a visit for the time being. I had actually
planned to travel over with Mechi,
but I’d rather buy myself a sewing
machine with the money instead, unless I were to get an order
from the Befehls, they at least miss me
and write it, even today.
I don’t want your apologies,
in case you’re planning to write any; it’s better
to let some time pass.
It’s better that way.

Don’t worry about Mechi; please; we’ll
figure things out. Since she’s so
unrealistically romantic, I can’t
hold it against her; she just felt a little
sorry for herself. She feels very comfortable at the club, more
so than with me. What do we do in the evenings? Mechi
is always writing letters and in her diary, what
am I supposed to talk to her about then? And one time I
begged her to come to gymnastics with me,
because it’s really nice there, and
Mechi wants to get thinner again, too.
But she preferred to sort pictures,
