Vancouver, Sept. 16, 56

dear mechi!
Thank you very much for your letter, I'm always happy to get mail from you all. It was really nice when you were here, even if things didn't always work out perfectly. Have you found a job yet? The thing with New Zealand would be great.
Yes, something seems to be fishy with the group. Inge just wrote that they have to have another members' meeting because the group is doing poorly. I also know that Heinz isn't president, I would have fought against that too and would have said so publicly if I had been there. But now for the latest news: Siegfried and Käthe are engaged!!! I'm happy for Siegfried, he was so set on it. And more news! Endres is having a baby! (to everyone's great delight!?) One more thing: Klaus caused a $400 accident—he was insured and only had to pay $50! André had an accident on the Baysville trip, $600, no insurance! and Joe wrecked his truck! The Baysville trip was apparently very nice, Manfred and Werner Schmeichel were there too. They like to go away privately lately, with their self-made boat. Did you still see that?
Manfred's address is: 79 Hazelton Ave.
Siegfried's: 1277 Wilson Ave
DOWNSVIEW P.O. /ont.
Werner Schneider's: 304 Robert St., but I think he has moved.
I'm not as enthusiastic about George as you think, just as an aside. How do you like Heinz as a clown? I'll make you pictures of the trip and Vancouver when I'm back in Toronto. I'm out of paper again, I have to have it sent from Toronto. What's the name of the paper you use? Please write and tell me, because Inge is having her father send her paper, which is cheaper since he gets a 25% discount.
Inge and Klaus aren't going home for Christmas now; instead, they're buying two more lots on Georgian Bay, adjacent to their piece of land.
I'm almost always at the Ochs family's place, I'm like at home there, really such a nice atmosphere. Gudrun also works in an office, but she finished high school here. Her sister is now a teacher up north, one sister is married in Ottawa, one in Vancouver. Have I already told you about our last trip? Or rather, two? The one on the long weekend with Gudrun to the Okanagan Valley, 400 miles from here. It's almost a desert climate there, the mountains are bare and sandy, with cacti and steppes. And in between, like oases, are orchards with apples, pears, apricots, peaches, plums, bush tomatoes, cucumbers, watermelons. But everything is artificially irrigated, partly from Okanagan Lake, partly from the mountains. The irrigation runs day and night, even all the meadows are artificially watered. And you can get fruit there for cheap! A box of apples for $1, a box of plums for $1.50, peaches too. We brought the whole car back full of it. We slept in the car and cooked on a Coleman stove of Gudrun's. We made pancakes and oatmeal in the morning. It was great.
Last weekend, Gudrun's brother with his future brother-in-law, Dieter, and Gudrun's brother Peter and I took Dieter's Volkswagen bus on a two-day trip to Harrison Hot Springs in the middle of the mountains and Cultus Lake on the US-Canadian border. On Saturday evening we spent 2 1/2 hours in the hot sulfur spring, which was so hot you could just barely get in. Afterwards we all had fuzzy heads. Then we slept in the VW, it worked well with the four of us. In the morning we cooked again, and swam and went boating, and sang songs. It was awesome.

Peti is coming with me to the East. He's leaving from New York for Paris, where he wants to study painting; that is, he wants to study while working. He trained as a carpenter, his paintings are really great, but especially his wood carvings, some things hewn out with just an axe. We're leaving on September 29th, at 11 p.m., so the state opera "Koriola," if there's still time. I'm really looking forward to the trip, especially since Peti also has a passport, so everything will work out.
I'm not swimming yet, I'm very much looking forward to Toronto, but I'm also quite all right with it if I don't go, because I've already experienced a lot.
Please write to me as soon as possible what you would like. Your letter, that is, maybe 187 is coming; what are you doing you Störkel, my painting at the is still standing you would do fight? The purchase of your mother hasn't arrived yet, because on the 2nd where is this then? Do you have a tasks for 6x9 and? do you know when I learned that for and other numbers about 30 wants big. Say hi to everyone under thank you very much too, I was very happy. Your
