Toronto, May 2, 1957

Dear Mother,

I wish you a very happy 51st birthday and all the very best. Last year, Uschi had just returned, and now that's already been a year ago.

Thank you very much for your birthday letter; I was very happy to receive it. It arrived right on time on the 29th. The package isn't here yet, though, but I'm already getting a little antsy for the stove. Thank you for that. Mail also came from Uschi, along with the book "Im letzten Westen," which I've already finished reading. It's very interesting, especially since I might want to go there someday. From Gudrun in Vancouver, I received a book, "Neues schönes rund Mexico," and a nice homemade apron. From Resel, of course, the record with Christmas songs, and from Inge, a drying apparatus for photos, which I can really use. On Saturday, there was a family night at church, and afterward at 11 p.m., Gisele and I set off for Inge and Klaus's cottage. We got there at 3 in the morning after getting lost twice due to fog and rain. Klaus and Inge were still awake, so we ate and then played badminton in the cottage until 5 in the morning. The next day, we grilled on the tennis court behind the cottage, the weather was great, it turned into spring again over the Easter holidays. Things are in bloom now, and then summer will be right around the corner. Resel also wrote that she has been taking advantage of the spring weather. I'm curious to see what she'll say about the heat here. I'm already looking forward to her perhaps coming here during her vacation. Klaus and Inge are driving, or rather flying, to Germany on June 26th for 6 weeks on the German club's airplane, which is cheaper than the ship. Now they want to bring the guitar back for me. Could you perhaps send it to Winsbach? Or give it to someone who is driving there? Or to Frankfurt? That would make me very happy. Have you received the slides from Homburg yet? They are slides from New Year's Eve at the cottage. Could you please send them back here via "printed matter"?

It's nice that Erdmuth was with you all again. Have you heard much from Gert again? At Easter, we had a big outing to Deer Lake with all the old members again. We were dressed warmly out on the lake, because we still had a lot of snow the week before Easter. When we were racing, there was still ice on the lake, but then it got so hot that we were all really sweating and got sunburned. We hunted for Easter eggs on the island and had a lot of fun. In the evening, we had two great bonfires, we sang a lot of songs, and the two Hungarian students sang Hungarian folk songs. One of the Hungarian students is a distant relative of Käthe's, so we invited him and his friend at our expense, since they don't have anything. We went with 7 Volkswagens, everyone is switching over to VWs, especially since it's built here, although I sometimes had to take a small detour in the States, but never more than 100 miles. In the States, very few Volkswagens are driven compared to Canada, except in California. But the parts are significantly cheaper; I'll probably always drive to the States for repairs.

Have the trees budded well? Do you actually have raspberries and strawberries too? How are they doing? Here, farmers are being advised not to sell their farms, as farm product prices are expected to rise rapidly in the coming years. Otherwise, food has also become much more expensive; some things are almost twice as expensive as they were 5 years ago. Bread has gotten 5¢ per pound more expensive in the last year. Milk is supposed to go down again, though, because they are now coming out with 3-quart bottles. Coffee has also gotten cheaper, as a consolation, because gasoline went up by 2¢—but only in Ontario. Each province does that for itself, taxing things. The gasoline itself is the same price, it's the tax that went up. Diesel fuel became 9¢ cheaper. Because of this, the streetcar and bus company will also raise their prices.

Now, where are Uncle Max and Uncle Hans, by the way? How is Grandma? Is she back with you all yet? What does Dagmar plan to do once she's finished her training? How did Christel do on her exam?

Warm regards from Karl.
