Banff, Oct. 26, 64

Dear Mom,
Thank you very much for your letter. It's good that you were all together again and are finished with all the work. Hopefully it won't get so cold now that your endives freeze, if there's still any in the ground. It's getting colder and colder here and the nights are already quite cold. We had so much to do with the harvest in the past few weeks. In many areas, the crops are freezing or the wind has ruined everything. It's always the fear or the terror of the farmers, since the taxes are so high that they can't afford to lose a harvest. Often they are then in debt for the land. The city or the state or the canton, since the land belongs to a main fruit-growing region, although this year most of it froze, since we live south of there and the observatory is very interesting for the children in every way, so I showed it to Hans twice. We went up twice and once for a couple of weeks, of course we have good heating. Now a thermostat regulates the temperature. The boys were made curious about what they shouldn't stick their noses into. The boys always go for me to my... everyone who is far from the house...

Andri and Christopher bring us a lot of joy. Christopher can almost sit up already. He has grown a lot more than André had at his age. He now weighs 18 1/2 pounds. André has grown a lot and is starting to crawl. He has grown a lot more than André had at his age. He was certainly very sleepy and is still happy. He's constantly dashing around with Hans and he likes to play with Christopher, and he plays the same pranks that his little brother does. He already drinks... whether he falls down, first drinks... a bump sleeps from him is through the house. While running. One... get up less, for me and somehow hits, and and very, different, what he doesn't... when it comes to picking things up from the bed. He can now already... quarter to the sun, that she... three times with the springs... the sun on the other side and he not often still, when it runs in his bed and she doesn't see the sun there, because the... goes to sleep. The same goes for... spool and then I only notice that he is playing and devouring it. He can also do trains and airplanes.

You ask what we would like. Actually nothing more out of the ordinary. The brown checkered pants seem faster, you can dress them warmly with those, and André can get outside quickly, André will also be able to walk in the sturdy shoes. If it fits, with the sweatpants. André has a very wide, high foot, so if it also fits a bigger child, then the widest ones. Then I would very much like a tracksuit for André, size for 3 years old. If they are not too expensive, a somewhat smaller one for Christophle, size 2 years. His arms and legs and back are always light. On average, they get a new "Bayriselzell" next summer. It would be nice if you have old ones, that also fit a small child. André got: a knight's carriage like the one from you, a farm, a big truck, we have 10 cm high foam blocks to throw, as long as Christophle is still smaller, and the wagons I would very much like for Christophle, and am and all so confused. We have... for André I would very much like one so that he can also catch up. catch up. Every day he orders, until... you wrote last year, also from old... It gets dirty anyway, and on the floor. He looks at magazines with us, and in the children's... sudden shapes. In the Reader's... cigar strange things from it. I'm angry... Just now Eric is scolding that I don't... have a pan in the Swedish catalog... could I please order a pair of "Wedeln" (snowshoes), from 125,-... store in Konstanz could be much more expensive? But then I would have to please... could tell... order since 125,- DM 99.50 DM store in Konstanz much more expensive. if they for the... time down - which they order from shoes. Maybe Uschi could try them on sometime. I think that size 38 would be right, for a pair of thin and a pair of thick socks; I think she could send the money or have it added to the bill. And maybe it would be good to have two packages sent to you at once. For André, the smallest ones have to be sent from Vancouver. He should say again, for skis... long, that is too short for him. He should say again, for... that was one of his first words, and I should say again, comes, then it would perhaps work out.

Those to Vancouver, 15 + 16 pounds heavy. Winter, we will call André more often then. Eric gives his parents lessons and the few words he knows are excellent. up; André can learn to ski this winter. Garden, because most parts are for André. Get parts for the better pot. I would have thought of the patience, but I would perhaps... that I want to order the money by mail then.

Warmest greetings to you all,
Your
Bal

André's feet are growing fast.
On October 13th Klaus died
of a heart attack in 20 minutes.
Uredi is still getting a lot of good things from him, I'm glad that
she helps her parents, because alone
with the small children, that is too much.
($7000.- / 20 000 DM) send out.
