Monto, Sept. 19, 55

Dear Mother,
Just a very quick note today, mecki is currently
making pictures, an order for 450 prints, so
I have to help with the fixing.
But now, quickly, the reason I'm writing:
mecki and I thought that we could
perform "The Christ Child" with the youth group.
Would it be possible for you to send it to us
by airmail? The postage will be on us; we've
ordered 5 albums from Photopost anyway, so
it can all go on one bill. We have already
thought about the roles, but we need to
start rehearsals as soon as possible.
Our trip was great, and so was the wedding
of... I'm writing this while I'm
working, so more on that
in a few days.
Warm regards,
Dork
P.S. If bärbel sends it right away,
I'll send a reel for the
View-Master by return mail.

Toronto, Oct. 10, 55

Dear Mother,
"The Christ Child" arrived the day before yesterday.
Many thanks for that. I'm sorry you had such
a hassle with it. But we immediately started
transcribing the parts today; I got 3 boys
to come help me. For now, we've distributed
the roles like this. (God the Father: André); (Angel Gabriel:
Erika); (Joseph: Sigismund); (Mary: Nicki); Guldin-
sach: Uli; (Innkeeper's Wife: Vera); (Herod: Manfred)
(Death: Werner); (Devil: Wolf); (Attendant: Horst Wer-
mescher); (Michel: Horst Miele); (Stoffel: Siegfried)
(Cyrich: Werner Kjarr); (Melchior: Hans Dieter)
(Walthauser: Heinz); (Caspar: Reinhold). We're not
yet sure about the star singers. I'm not acting
in it, since I have to take on the directing
and there are more girls than roles anyway,
at most I'll be the first star singer.
Next Sunday is the first rehearsal. Inge wants
to make the costumes. We do have good
musicians in the group, though. Manfred
plays the piano well, as does Hans-Dieter; Klaus
(Inge's husband) plays the violin very well, also Ellen;
Werner plays the mandolin, and Reinhold plays the
recorder in addition to the accordion. André also plays
the piano very well. Uli plays the transverse flute, but she doesn't have it with her. I was just at Sigismund's and
showed him the script. He had some concerns
about whether we'll get the pronunciation right, since
apart from Reinhold, everyone is really German.
But I think we should give it a try in any
case. I want to see if we can fill an
entire evening with the play, choirs,
and musical performances.
It is a lot of work, having to take care of
everything, especially since I'm once again
overbooked with night school.
I have pottery again (where I'm now on the
electric wheel), then gymnastics
(mechi now goes once a week too), and
then shorthand and typing.
For shorthand and typing, you always have
to do homework. By the way,
was that serious about the secretary position
at Uncle Max's? That would certainly be a job.
I would be interested in that.
Yesterday, on Sunday, we set off with three
cars at 4 o'clock in the morning, because we
wanted to go on a hike.
We drove to Collingwood on Georgian Bay
and climbed around in caves and
rock crevices there, and took excursions
through the woods. It was so beautifully sunny and
warm, and everyone really enjoyed this
outing again. In the evening, though,
we had to be back by 8 o'clock
for the club, where we heard a highly interesting
lecture on the influence of world history
on the church. A good speaker
can make even the most boring topic
interesting.
Inge and Klaus are at the club more often
again now; Klaus likes it with us.
I'm still there often, though of course not as
much as before. Inge is coming along
to gymnastics again, but of course she
has more to do with the household now.
Klaus is an electrical engineer and has a
job as a technical draftsman. Just imagine,
8 days before the wedding, his sister and his
cousin were tragically killed in Germany.
That's why we kept the wedding so
small. The ceremony was at 10:30 in the morning,
and it was really very nice; Dr. Görgigen
does that very nicely. Manfred and I
were the witnesses. Otherwise, besides the
pastor's wife, no one was in the church, since the youth
group was away on a trip. Then we had
the wedding meal: potato salad and schnitzel,
and then all sorts of little "appetizers."
I had baked a beautiful buttercream torte,
with roses and pansies piped on top.
The youth group had given Inge a lovely
tea service, which was used right away. Then
we left for Woodview, where the two of them
are staying, and Manfred and I drove
on. That was quite a nice drive,
over 300 miles (480 km); we arrived at the
others' place in Baysville at 11:30 at night.
Inge's sister Hilde is doing well in Germany;
she's not working yet, but will soon
start at an American office in Wiesbaden.
She was traveling all summer
with her father, in Holland and
Belgium and in Italy.
Our new apartment is very nice; we
have more space now, but we also have
correspondingly more visitors. Sometimes
half the group is here. You asked about
Christmas wishes. I would really like
an anorak for skiing with a hood,
preferably blue. Or else a good
camping stove. For smaller things, I would like
a case for filters and a lens hood, to
attach to the strap, or a wash bag.

* I still haven't answered your last
letter, but I wanted to at least write you
a few lines. Your mother had also written to me.
Warmest greetings from all of us.
