Vancouver, Nov. 25, 1958

Dear Mother and Siblings,

I wish you all a beautiful Advent and pre-Christmas season. It's now almost a year since I was in Germany. On the one hand, the time went by so quickly, and on the other, it seems like so much has happened in between; I've experienced and seen so many new things. The report isn't finished being typed yet. I had first sent it to Toronto to be retyped because I didn't have a typewriter yet, and they kept it there for so long. I only got it back 3 days ago. So please forgive me. I will send it by airmail then.
The book "Bengt Maertoso" is meant to be read aloud during Advent; I liked it very much. It is not a serious book, though.
Did you finish the harvest alright? Have you started pruning? How is the weather?
The area here is so beautiful it's hard to believe. The weather is also exceptionally good; it even freezes in the morning, which is very unusual. During the day, there's beautiful sunshine, the mountains are white and so close, the ocean so blue. For the past 3 weeks, we've been going skiing with the group, in the States on Mt. Baker. There's about 2 meters of snow there, and the season goes until the end of May, and even until July higher up. It's beautiful in the middle of the mountains, like in Switzerland. And down below it's warm and almost still summer.
That's fun, and on the other hand, someone you know skis past you, because there are always 60-70 Youth Hostellers there.

Our club room is now finished. We painted it and replaced the open fireplace with an oil heater, since the chimney with the coal fire was too cold at -30°. The oil stove gives off such roaring heat that you can hardly stand it, and it's cheaper than coal or wood, so we can go skiing again in the winter. All the skiers from the youth group meet there then.
What is Ursel up to? Is she in Hamburg? It's a shame she doesn't have vacation for Christmas. But she will be there on Christmas Day, won't she?
I had to move because my room was going to be rented out as part of an apartment. Now I'm living on Spadina Rd. again, at 169 (one hundred and sixty-nine). I have use of the kitchen and a washing machine here.

Warm regards,
from Joh.
