Toronto, Jan. 27, 58.

Dear Mutti,

It's about high time that I let you hear from me. I arrived safely, though with a seven-hour delay. You probably saw on the map that we flew over the Azores. First, we flew to Ireland and from there we were supposed to go to Gander, Newfoundland. But there was such a storm there that we changed our route and flew via Santa Maria in the Azores. We landed there, too; it was as warm as summer. At night, we were in a thunderstorm with high winds, so we had to buckle up and everything went flying. I found it very interesting, but a lot of people got sick. In New York, the glorious weather was gone—cold winter weather, -10 degrees Celsius with sun and snow. We had a magnificent view, saw ships on the ocean, and then all of New York. And during the flight, the captain flew over the Falls especially for us, to make up for the delay. I'm curious to see if the pictures I took will turn out. Whether they will change our plane for us—the captain refused to fly any further since one of the engines was a bit broken. We were also allowed to go up to the cockpit; at least, I was there and took a flash photo. Inge and Klaus had been sitting at the airport for 6 hours by the time I arrived. I had no trouble at customs, even though only $100.00 was duty-free, including all the gifts.

But I'm glad to have solid ground under my feet again. It's a strange feeling, though, to arrive after such a long journey. But I still had the police report about our stolen cameras, so it counted as replacement immigrant's goods. On Monday, I went right back to work, and there was a lot to talk about there, too. On Wednesday, I was back at gymnastics and school, and on Thursday, I moved. I'm living right by High Park now; it will be amazing there in the spring. Friday was theater rehearsal and on Saturday we were in Kitchener to perform in the play. There was so much snow that you could barely get through. As a result, we didn't get home until 5:30 in the morning. We had over 600 people in the audience, which is the most we've had so far. In Kitchener (formerly Berlin), there are more Germans than Canadians, after all. Yesterday, Sunday, was the club meeting again, where I first had to tell my stories. They are still insisting that I do a slide show, and they just don't want to believe that I have almost no slides. Everyone is asking the same thing now: how I liked it, whether I used too many English words, and how expensive everything is. Of course, I liked it a lot, although you'd have to be over there longer to judge whether you could really settle in. But being forced to follow all the regulations is pretty bad. And many things are still so complicated. In any case, I can also imagine everything much better when you write to me.

What did you all do on Boxing Day? I hope you are all healthy and happy. Warmest greetings to everyone from your Christel
