Toronto, Dec. 16, '56

Dear Christel,
Warmest greetings for Christmas and good guidance for the new year. For everyone back home, it's probably happening with three rounds of unwrapping anyway, first a little package, then days later, and so much going on, a person would think, if I think back to the apprentice and the pebbles on the last evening, or rather night, days offered for several months or even years, the second to last day! Do you ever read anything besides Hatte and Winkelmann? I'd be surprised.

Your letter, or for the end of the 8-page-long letter, which you must have left lying around, you know, please excuse me if I don't write more now, I won't write any more before Christmas, I would have sent airmail letters after I arrived in Toronto. 10 letters to Vancouver, I'm quite, I'm not getting the one for the female little one anymore, ok? Do you still have the group, by the way? now and then, because 2, hopefully you'll respond. I don't give a bit, if you—to be honest, it's not that important to me whether I have so and so much in the bank 3 months sooner or later, that doesn't matter either. I did think about buying a piece of land here, maybe next to Inge and Klaus, but I don't know, I think the West is too much of a draw. Grandma wrote to me recently from the home, which made me very happy. I wrote to her twice from Vancouver and also sent a postcard from the road, though all of it went to Bernbach.

Please give Christel my very best, and tell her to check if the beginning of her letter to me isn't tucked between the pages of her diary, because she can just send that to me as a Christmas letter. It can only be that roughly the first part is missing (there was one originally, right?). I think it's already quite late for Christmas wishes, but nevertheless, here are a few things to choose from, in case you don't know what to get. Since my camp stove got stolen, I'd like a gasoline stove for the car. Or a camera bag (also stolen!), or a travel alarm clock, or a brand-new wallet, or cookbooks (Keren's, or others), or the Christmas stories that Liesel has, the three volumes with the one about the boy from the reformatory in it, but I'd also be thrilled with something else.

For today, many greetings to you and the other three,
from Dolfi
