Toronto, November 19, 1955

Dear Mutti and siblings!
How are you all? Now
in the evenings I have more time again
hopefully I always will now
because of school. I'm back
in school in the evenings this week.
Typewriting and shorthand.
is youth evening and then helps
secretary, that also makes
I had a bad conscience about all of you in the summer, when
you wrote about your St. Cecilia festivals and I
went swimming at 3 o'clock after work
please excuse me, but I'm writing
to each sister with the fountain pen and
each nib, which I think still
dates from last year, which I love the
most. The fountain pen
like an old Bartel kisten
with x fingers at the front, where one
gets fingers. And all that back and forth
gets a ball writing so on the left
absolutely, start again sometime
until, the only ones the names that
were given such a crooked pear, ball
pot holders, cake pans etc.
do you know what I did today? Peter Bartl was there too, although she
doesn't speak English well. The shorthand
isn't difficult for me, it just goes
much too slowly for me at school.
On Monday we had another perfor-
mance for
"National Health Week." We again
breathed new life into it, that is to say soap
soap and nagging. That was really
great fun. I also yes already
really indealer (?) money, but I believe
that the only subscriber saves. It is the
best conductor's stand I saw. Dream or
for the week - play concerts almost every evening
somewhere. Yesterday evening I was
at a concert of Beethoven and
Timir (?) was the Kaffer for beautiful
and easy for me, that she can't
grasp what she's doing
there. Stay firm and can
exclude. Don't consider her
(who would go back)
today it cost $13, that's
82 DM. If you for an
oil painting or something else bring
you can, though not too
big a thing, that can be free of charge
maybe do it so that she
gets money from me, if no health insurance, and not even the
most expensive private insurance, the dentist,
presumably because they would otherwise go bankrupt.
The same with medi-
cations, if you're not in the hos-
pital. Now, with it being Health
Week, a lot of attention is being paid
again to making sure everyone knows
about vitamins and calories. I
have to say, much more attention is paid
to that here, and fresh apples
and oranges are eaten a lot,
also much more fresh vegetables
than in Germany, which can be bought
at cheap prices. A lot more
salad is eaten, especially coleslaw
and lettuce, then raw
carrots (just whole like that) and raw celery
raw spinach (very good) and radishes,
cucumber slices (undressed) and bell peppers.
Salad here is mostly eaten
with your hands anyway, something fresh with every
meal. So, compa-
ratively few bananas are bought,
even though they are so cheap, but there aren't
many vitamins in them and they make you
so fat. That might seem to you I give it to her here. But if you can't get a nice one for
50 DM, feel free
to spend more, then it can be an Easter
present or a belated wedding
anniversary gift!
The winter here is actually colder than
in recent years, quite a lot of snow
and sun every day. Gray winter days
are very, very rare here, either
it's snowing or the sun is shining,
without the water immediately running,
everything is still frozen rock-solid.
Fog occurs here maybe 3 times a
year. In Calgary, they have 2.70 meters of snow.
So I can be very glad next year
that Christel's skirt was too tight, I wouldn't
have thought it, it was 5 sizes
bigger than mine. But that's apparently
the different diet and
air here, that you get thinner, Mechi has
also lost weight. In return, though, you get
bad teeth. The dentists here
say that's the case with almost all new
Canadians. Mechi also has the and full
jaw, but she is waiting with perseverance
and a toothache for the health insurance
in Germany. Here, as you know, this is exaggerated, the whole
vitamin magic, but in the city
it's really important, so
all flours and milk and
other foods are also artificially
enriched with vitamins, so that the local
cotton-white bread actually has the same
vitamins as whole-grain
bread. By the way, speaking of
artificial, there is now
a saccharine (sweetener) here that, with the
best will in the world, cannot be dis-
tinguished from sugar. We use it in the
hospital for our diabetics and
the weight-loss treatments. It is also very
cheap, but sugar costs
nothing here either, 10¢ a pound. The Betzels
have written to me again
since I left, they have done 8-12 acres of
new plantings, mostly on
leased land. Mr. Betzel does everything
on Type 9 or now Type 4 with
an iron pipe frame. A 20-year lease is enough for that
then the soil is exhausted and the
and the planting is declining. That is
modern, almost like the farmers here
do it. But he is successful with it.
Warm regards. Dorle.
