We had, I think, 6-8 rowboats and one motorboat. You could already go swimming, too. There was just one big catch: the mosquitos. Uschi got completely bitten up, as did everyone who hadn't experienced an early summer by the lakes before.
There was a guy with us, Heinz, who was fishing, and the blood was just running down his face—no exaggeration. Uschi was still swollen for days afterward and was scratching like crazy. But they had announced on the radio beforehand that you should be careful and on no account go out without protective oil (but that stuff stinks worse than the fuel oil for the cows).
We took a lot of pictures. It was the first time I really snapped away with the new camera, so I mostly focused on landscapes, except for the cover story "Water Fight," which is a twelve-shot series of a battle.
Right now, two German films are showing in English: *The Last Prescription* with O.W. Fischer and *The Divided Heart* with Cornel Borchers. That one is about an abandoned Yugoslavian child who is adopted by Germans and then, after 8 years, is demanded back by the Yugoslavian mother. Both sides are portrayed in such a way that you don't know who to side with, so it's quite sad. Is the film "East of Eden" by John Steinbeck playing over there yet? It's the best film I've seen so far, and it also features a completely newly discovered actor. Or have you seen "On the Waterfront" with Marlon Brando? Or "The Glass Slipper" with Leslie Caron?
Mechi is going to B.C. now on July 1st, which will be quite an experience. She'll write to you about it herself. She's going to take my Isolette for black and white and hers for color slides. Since I have my vacation at the exact same time, I can't very well give her mine, and besides, if she loses it or something else happens to it, hers is easier to replace. Yesterday, Mechi was offered a great job as a photographer at the television station, $40 a week, but she didn't take it because of B.C., which is something I wouldn't have done. She could have stopped working a bit earlier next spring and then gone to Europe via B.C. and California. At that job, she would have had every Sunday off and every other weekend from Friday to Tuesday. And that would have certainly been interesting work. She also thought that $40 a week wasn't enough. That's an hourly wage of $1.00, and back then I worked on the farm for 35¢ an hour and thought I was saving and earning a fortune. But that's Mechi's business.
Yes, Hilde and Mrs. Kochen are allowed to go back on July 1st. In Germany, Hilde went to business school, so in that respect, she's actually in her profession, whereas Inge went to textile school to become a textile technician and also spent half a year in Wiesbaden sewing and co-designing costumes and dresses for a film studio.
For Hilde, the adjustment won't be so drastic, since she'll be living in better circumstances in Germany than here. The only thing she's dreading is the long working hours.
