Toronto, Dec. 27, 56

Dear Mother!
That was another wonderful package, thank you very much. The sweater is absolutely wonderful and I like it very much. I wore it the entire holidays, so warm and beautiful. I played the records over and over again on the evening of the 24th and on the 25th + 26th. By the way, my record player isn't broken, it was just set to 60 cycles, like yours, for AC and DC, and here in the city it's 25 cycles. But it has now been converted, and I won't have that done anymore. Of course, it's not as good as yours, but it's almost 5 years old. We were also very happy about the chocolate, which is always one of a kind. The three books are just great, so practical and with many nice stories in them, thank you again. I was also very happy about your Fischer books and I'll read them right away.

We have driven to the farm very often, since it's only two hours to Collingwood. On February 12th, there's a ski trip with the youth group to Dagmar. Two weeks earlier I was in Toronto with Manfred and André. André was there for the first time. The car was frozen (-30° Fahrenheit), and the battery was shot, too. So, after having the car plugged in for 5 hours, we were push-started on the driveway to the cottage, but of course the engine immediately stalled, so we had to pull over to the side and let it cool down, which took about 15 minutes each time. So we needed 4 1/2 hours for 6 miles and had to push-start it 13 times, with Manfred pushing. As soon as the whole winter is over, and if someone gets stuck with their car, you know how clever I am now.

Right now there's music on the radio, Brahms' 2nd Symphony and a quartet by Haydn. Gisel gave me a record for my birthday that arrived yesterday; Beethoven's Violin Concerto, opus 61. I am happy that it's working out for her, that she's getting into ballet; one has to prove what one can do. She has already bought herself all sorts of things, and wants to buy a record player, too. It's a shame that we can't see each other more often, I think that would be nice.

Inge was here now. I am happy that we saw a good film. Did you see "The King and I" with Yul Brynner from Rodgers and Hammerstein? Did you see "East of Eden" with James Dean? Or "Giant"? I am still in active correspondence with her and will be getting another letter from her soon. We always write such nice letters. What is my guitar doing? Are you actually using it? Do you think you could do without it and send it?

Warmest greetings from here
