Holland-America Line

R.M.S. Vancouver
Oct. 24/61

Dear Ulla,
First, the weather report! It's been
nice and warm here so far, with lots of
beautiful new snow on the mountains. In the
gardens, the roses are still blooming—the roses
that Birgit, as everyone knows, is. At
the hut, there's already over a meter of new
snow, and we're right in the middle
of skiing. I'm taking another
first aid course and this year I also have
to take an exam with the American
Red Cross. The ski school also starts
on November 4th, and Eric
will have to teach every Saturday and Sunday,
at least 2 hours each time.
For that, he earns 14 dollars (56 DM), which
is nothing to sneeze at (in case you haven't
noticed, the weather report
ended a long time ago). Last Sunday
we slept overnight in the VW—Eric
has built everything in, beds, a fold-out
table, and I a wardrobe and 7 cabinets.
We also have a heater, the kind
that heats without a flame. It's so
cozy that you could comfortably spend
the whole winter in there.

Holland-America Line

R.M.S. .....................................
.....................................

maybe I'll get a week off.

I'm just getting back from work
now, and I got a new
job today, a promotion. I
won't be a cashier anymore,
but an assistant accountant, which is
the third in line after the director. That means
more money, but also more work, but it's very
interesting—I had already been
doing the work on a temporary basis, but there's
still a lot to learn.
Have you also heard about the fire in Los
Angeles? 100 million dollars
in damage; all the villas of
the stars and millionaires in Beverly
Hills have been destroyed. Since we're having a
promotional week for safe deposit boxes at the
bank, I made a poster
with the latest newspaper clippings
about the fire, and I also scared
people a little, saying that
the same thing could happen to them and their
papers would all be destroyed.
Everyone who comes into the bank reads
the poster and some of them quickly buy
a box. The director, Battenhorst
