St. Catharines, Dec 25th 52.

Dear Umpkers,
Today, on the second day of Christmas, I'm finally
writing as well, and I want to thank you for
everything you sent me. The package arrived
back on the 14th, and this time it wasn't
oily when I opened it. The shoes are wonder-
ful, they'll surely last a few years and they
fit like a glove. Thank you so much. And as you
can probably imagine, I was especially happy
to see your pictures.
And often while on the road with those two,
I've been working my way through the book "The World
of Tears." I'm almost finished, and of
course I found it very interesting. It's
a bit strange when you've experienced
it yourself at the beginning and then
read books about it afterwards, and it's what
was meant at the start, and the
destroyers have all grown cold.
Now you've read the book too,
you probably wanted something different ??? I think
the farmers have also recovered,
1930-37 were bad years.
Or the German farmer from the
east during the war, who now can be sent things in CARE packages. I have
received my first $50, with which I can do
about as much as with 200 Marks in Germany.
Tomorrow I'm buying myself a car! Don't worry, that
was just a joke, because first I'm saving diligently until I've
paid off the trip. Friends of Duggan's are driving
to Florida over Christmas to go swimming. With a
charter bus, it costs $59 for the round trip. That
should be affordable someday. It's not good to hear
that Mr. Zauß is doing so poorly. I wish you for the
new year that you find a few good workers.I'm glad that you liked Mr. Betzel.
It's a miracle that he took the time
for that. Last night we baked Christmas
stollen with tons of candied lemon peel, so for me,
it was no treat. But otherwise it seems to be a very
good cake. Tomorrow we want to bake some more cookies.
Santa Claus comes here on the
night of the 24th to the 25th, as we told Dickie and Teddy.
Now, have a lovely Christmas celebration and
enjoy a cozy holiday. Best wishes? Dorle.

From: Dorle Hoffmann
c/o Mrs. C. A. Thomas
2320 Pine Grove Ave.
Niagara Falls
Ont.
Canada!

VIA AIRMAIL
PAR AVION
CORREO AEREO
