Toróls, June 21

Dear Mother!
Thank you very much for your last letter. I really haven't written in a long time and I really have no excuse, because compared to you, I certainly don't have much to do. But despite that, I'm out every evening again: guiding, craft group, theater group, folk dancing, gymnastics. Yes, I've now started a new craft group with girls from 10-16. Everyone is having a lot of fun; for now, we're doing a lot of handicrafts, and cane work, embroidery, and weaving potholders. Later, we also want to make stuffed animals and do fretwork. We'll then sell the items at the church's Christmas bazaar. With the theater group, we had quite a nice success with the first play, so now we're rehearsing three fairy tales and plays, from which we'll choose the most suitable one besides "Jolanthe" to perform the Sunday after next. The doctor is already quite involved, with amateur acting exercises and movement exercises. Mr. and Mrs. Adolf are enthusiastic actors. We also often go out on Sundays with the theater group, since almost all the old youth group members are in it. But I'm also still often in the youth group and went on the last big outing with them. We've now started a folk dance group and danced the night before last at an international folk festival. The international festival was wonderful. Gisela and I and others from the dance group were there the whole day. It was on a Danish farm near Toronto. The program was very diverse, all outdoors. There were folk dances performed by Austrians, Norwegians, Czechs, Slovaks, Poles, Canadian square dancing, Greeks, Scots; Black people sang, as did Italians and Germans. In between, everyone (about 500 people who danced along) repeatedly danced polonaises together, and then in the evening there was "Square Dance," the Canadian folk dance, which probably comes from the cowboys. The difference to our folk dancing is that a caller announces the steps as he pleases, so that ultimately anyone can join in the dances. At 11 p.m. we all sat around the campfire and sang until after 12, specifically "negro-spirituals," which are Black songs that are very simple in their lyrics, with a lead singer and a 4-part refrain. A Black man taught it to us, and it went quite well in 4-part harmony. These negro spirituals sound here in the bar. That was, of course, something completely different. During the meal breaks, a few of us from the group sat together and played harmonica and sang, and the next time we were supposed to go right up on stage and sing and play harmonica, or rather it is urgently requested that Gisela and I also on...

It will be lovely then, when I have my guitar. Thank you in the meantime.
The stove has, of course, already been used. It can draw well for 2 weeks, but the joy was all the greater. The "white gas" that I need for it works great; you can get it at almost any gas station. Last weekend we went swimming and camping, that is, there were five of us, to set up the tent and simply rolled up in our sleeping bags on our air mattresses right on the beach. It's quite hot, almost always 90°, which is 35° Celsius, but Liesel will be expecting it; I believe it's even hotter there. How did Liesel like New York so much, a visit must work out sometime.
The day after tomorrow, when... I'll do the and Tell... in three days they'll already be in Germany.
