Toronto, Sept. 19, '55

Dear Mother,
Just a very quick note today. Mecki is developing pictures right now, an order for 450 photos, and I have to help with the fixing.
But quickly, the reason I'm writing: Mecki and I had the idea that we could perform "Gotteskind" with the youth group. Would it be possible for you to send it to us by airmail? The postage will be on us; we've ordered 5 albums from Photopost anyway, so it can all go on one bill. We've already thought about the roles, but we'll have to start rehearsals as soon as possible.
Our trip was great, the wedding of ... he was too, I'm just writing during work, so more
in a few days.
Warm regards,
Dork
P.S. If Bärbel sends it right away, I'll send a reel for the View-Master by return mail.

***

Toronto, Oct. 10, '55

Dear Mother,
"Gotteskind" arrived the day before yesterday. Many thanks for it. I'm sorry you had such a hassle with it. But we went right away today to copy the parts from the scripts; I got 3 boys to help me. For now, we've assigned the roles as follows: (God the Father: André); (Angel Gabriel: Erika); (Joseph: Sigismund); (Mary: Uschi); (Guldinsach: Uli); (Innkeeper's Wife: Vera); (Herod: Manfred); (Death: Werner); (Devil: Wolf); (Attendant: Horst Wermescher); (Michel: Horst Miele); (Stoffel: Siegfried); (Cyrich: Werner Kjarr); (Melchior: Hans Dieter); (Balthazar: Heinz); (Caspar: Reinhold). We're not yet sure about the star singers. I'm not acting in it, since I have to take on the directing and there are more girls than roles anyway, maybe the first star singer at most.
Next Sunday is the first rehearsal. Inge wants to make the costumes. We do, however, have good musicians in the group. Manfred plays the piano well, as does Hans-Dieter. Klaus (Inge's husband) plays the violin very well, as does Ellen. Werner plays the mandolin, and Reinhold plays the accordion and the recorder. André also plays the piano very well. Uli plays the transverse flute, but she doesn't have it with her. I was just at Sigismund's and showed him the script. He was concerned about whether we'll get the pronunciation right, since apart from Reinhold, they are all really Germans. But I think we should try it in any case. I want to see if we can fill a whole evening with the play and with choirs and musical performances.
It is a lot of work, having to take care of everything, especially since I'm overloaded again with night school. I have pottery again (where I'm now on the electric wheel), then gymnastics (Mecki now goes once a week too), and then shorthand and typing. You always have to do homework in shorthand and typing, too. By the way, was that serious about the secretarial position with Uncle Max? That would certainly be a job. I'd be very interested in that.
Yesterday, on Sunday, we set off in three cars at 4 in the morning because we wanted to go on a hike. We drove to Collingwood on Georgian Bay and climbed around in caves and rock crevices there, and took excursions through the woods. It was so beautifully sunny and warm, and everyone really enjoyed this outing again. In the evening, though, we had to be back by 8 o'clock for the club, where we heard a highly interesting lecture on the influence of world history on the church. A good speaker can make even the most boring topic interesting.
Inge and Klaus are at the club more often again now; Klaus likes it with us. I'm still there often, though of course not as much as before. Inge is going to gymnastics with me again, but she naturally has more to do with the household now. Klaus is an electrical engineer and has a job as a technical draftsman. Imagine, 8 days before the wedding, his sister and his cousin were tragically killed in an accident in Germany. That's why we kept the wedding so small. The ceremony was at 10:30 in the morning, which was really very nice; Dr. Görgigen does it very nicely. Manfred and I were the witnesses. Otherwise, apart from the pastor's wife, no one was in the church, since the youth group was away on a trip. Then we had the wedding meal, potato salad and schnitzel, and then all sorts of little "appetizers." I had baked a beautiful buttercream torte, with roses and pansies piped on top. The youth group had given Inge a lovely tea service, which was put to use right away. Then we set off for Woodview, where the two of them stayed, and Manfred and I drove on. That was quite a nice drive, over 300 miles (480 km); we got to the others in Baysville at 11:30 at night.
Inge's sister Hilde is doing well in Germany. She isn't working yet but will soon start in an American office in Wiesbaden. She spent the whole summer traveling with her father, in Holland and Belgium and Italy.
Our new apartment is very nice; we have more space now, but we also have a corresponding number of visitors. Sometimes half the group is here. You ask about Christmas wishes. I would really like an anorak for skiing with a hood, preferably blue, or else a good camping stove. For smaller things, I'd like a case for filters and a lens hood, to attach to the strap, or a wash bag.

*I would also like to thank you and your parents very much for the package. Everything fits and tastes excellent. Warm greetings from all of us.
